---
layout: review
title:  "Missing"
author: robbie
categories: [ "film review", "AMC"]
tags: ['2023']
image: "assets/images/review/missing-og.jpg"
review-image: "assets/images/review/missing.jpg"
square-image: "assets/images/review/missing-sq.jpg"
description: A film that I knew very little about before heading to the theater, I think I saw the trailer once or twice and was intrigued.  I am glad I saw this and it makes me want to go back and watch Searching the film that apparently kicked of this anthology of films.
featured: true
hidden: true
rating: 3.5
comments: false
synopsis: "When her mother disappears while on vacation in Colombia with her new boyfriend, June’s search for answers is hindered by international red tape. Stuck thousands of miles away in Los Angeles, June creatively uses all the latest technology at her fingertips to try and find her before it’s too late. But as she digs deeper, her digital sleuthing raises more questions than answers... and when June unravels secrets about her mom, she discovers that she never really knew her at all."  
youtube: seBixtcx19E
permalink: /review/robbie/:month-:day-:year/:title
---
The movie opens with a video being watched on a computer screen of a daughter and her father and her mother enters, and the video is being edited the end with the father and daughter together.  The father in the video died of a brain tumor shortly after the video was shot.  We move forward in time years later with that little girl, June who is played by [Storm Reid](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm4977564/) and she is planning a week of house parties.  June's mother Grace is played by [Nia Long](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0000505/) and her boyfriend Kevin is played by [Ken Leung](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0504962/) and they are heading to Columbia on that vacation which is the inciting incident for the film and the house parties.  The framing device for this film is June's laptop screen, where we are seeing her Facetiming with her mother, texting with friends and the ring door video when someone comes to the door in the opening scenes.  June leaves Facetime application open on her desktop, so we constantly see June's face and her living room and front door.  Her mother transfers $350 into her bank account, and this is the funding for the week of parties and we have a montage of partying ending with a party on father's day where June is sad, drinks too much and throws up. Then she wakes up at 11am with a heck of a hangover to her devices notifications go off to remind her to pick up her mother and Ken from the airport.  She eventually hires a person from Task Rabbit to clean her destroyed house from the previous night and week of parties, and heads to the airport.

Mother doesn't appear at airport

lots of investigating

Kevin dies...

Final twist
After all that the "church guy" that June tracked Kevin to via his Google timeline in the second act, calls her phone after she was able to log into the security website.