---
layout: review
title:  "Presence"
author: robbie
categories: [ "film review"]
tags: ['2025']
image: "assets/images/review/presence-og.jpg"
review-image: "assets/images/review/presence.jpg"
square-image: "assets/images/review/presence-sq.jpg"
description: A haunted house story told from the perspective of the presence.
featured: true
hidden: true
rating: 4
comments: false
synopsis: "A family moves into a suburban house and becomes convinced they’re not alone."  
youtube: XfSNmYhV8Xc?si=Hkr_O8h-o83WVzp_
permalink: /review/:title
---
The movie opens with the view of an empty home, and the camera making it's way through the space teaching the audience how to watch this movie.  Next the we seen a real estate agent named Cece arrive just ahead of her clients, Cece is played by [Julia Fox](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm9681752/).  Her clients are the Payne family, a family of four: mother Rebecca who is played by [Lucy Lui](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0005154/), father Chris played by [Chris Sullivan](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm2884388/), a son named Tyler played by [Eddy Maday](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm15208746/) making is screen debut, and younger sister Chloe who is truly the center of the story, played by [Callina Liang](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm13153010/). —move into a large suburban house inhabited by a poltergeist (referred to in-universe as the "Presence.") The entire film is presented from the Presence's point of view in a series of long takes.

The Presence witnesses the growing cracks within the family. The parents' marriage is strained: Rebecca has been committing financial fraud at her work; Chris is considering leaving her. Rebecca obsesses over Tyler, an arrogant champion swimmer, while paying little attention to Chloe. Meanwhile, Chris is concerned for Chloe, who is grieving the death of her best friend Nadia, one of two girls in the community who recently died in their sleep. Tyler dismisses the dead girls as drug addicts.

Chloe senses the Presence, which often hides in her closet, and believes it's the spirit of Nadia. Chloe meets Tyler's friend, Ryan. They get high and discuss loss and grief, until Chloe breaks down, sobbing as Ryan consoles her. He tells her that she will decide when and where they have sex, and discusses his psychological issues and obsession with control. The Presence makes a shelf in Chloe's closet collapse in order to stop them from becoming intimate. Another day, after Chloe and Ryan have sex, Ryan spikes a drink with a date rape drug, but the Presence knocks it over before Chloe can drink it. Meanwhile, Tyler and his friends prank a female classmate, soliciting an intimate photo of her and then circulating it on social media. Rebecca is indulgent, but Chris and Chloe are appalled. The Presence furiously trashes Tyler's room, revealing its existence to the rest of the family.

Chris contacts the realtor, who insists no one died in the home, as she'd legally have to disclose that, but recommends her medium friend come by. The medium senses the Presence and notes the vintage mirror built into the fireplace mantle that helps see into the spiritual plane. She realizes that Chloe can also sense it, due to trauma opening the metaphysical "door." She adds that the Presence is in the house for a reason, and suggests that the Presence could be trapped in an anachronistic time period, confusing past with present. Tyler and Rebecca dismiss the story as nonsense. Chloe and Chris have a conversation in which he reveals that he believes Chloe's claims, admitting that he has become more religious with time as his age has brought him experience. The medium later returns and warns Chris that she believes the Presence is here to prevent a future event, something to do with "the window that doesn't open."

At Ryan's insistence, he and Chloe plan to spend the night together while her parents are away on a business trip, though Chloe warns Tyler will still be present. Once the parents leave, Ryan arrives and drugs Tyler with Ambien, leaving him asleep in the living room, while he brings another spiked drink to Chloe. Chloe admits to Ryan that she's no longer comfortable with the situation, but he manipulates her into comforting him and "just talking" over the drinks. She consumes the spiked drink, leaving her incapacitated. Ryan gloats that he killed Nadia and made it look like an overdose. He uses ultra-thin plastic wrap to repeatedly cut off her air supply. The Presence frantically wakes up Tyler, who runs upstairs and tackles Ryan, throwing them both through the window. The Presence looks out the window to the driveway below, as it had many times before, at the now-dead Tyler and Ryan.

The family moves out of the house. Before leaving, Rebecca senses the Presence and follows it to the mirror, where she sees Tyler's reflection and breaks down in grief. Having fulfilled its purpose, the Presence/Tyler floats out and above the house as the family leaves for the final time.